---
title: "What's the Difference Between Cold Brew and Iced Coffee?"
date: 2017-03-15T08:43:41-04:00
next: 
prev: 
comments: true
draft: false
tags: [cold brew, iced coffee,]
categories: [recipes]
image: /posts-content/cold-brew-vs-iced-coffee.jpg
---
<p>Since the recent popularity of cold brew coffee many consumers have wondered - what is the difference between cold brew and iced coffee? The main difference is the brewing method itself; cold brew is steeped with cold water for 12-48 hours, where iced coffee is brewed with hot water and then mixed with cold water and refrigerated. Both methods are relatively easy to execute, but the flavor profile achieved can be dramatically different.</p>

<h3>The Cold Brewing Processs</h3>
<p>There are many different brewer options that can be used in order to make cold brew, but our favorite is the Toddy. You want to start with freshly roasted coffee; we recommend using our <a href="https://www.chriscoffee.com/Machristay-Golden-Gate-Java-p/5r4601.htm?utm_source=article&utm_medium=blog&utm_content=cold-brew-vs-iced-coffee" target="_blank">Golden Gate Java</a> and you will need a medium-coarse grind so that it will allow the cold water to properly steep through the grounds. Once the coffee is ground you will insert the stopper into the bottom of the container from the outside and then wet the filter and place it at the bottom of the container from inside. The Toddy brewers are available in different sizes, so depending on the size you are using you will need to add cold filtered water into the bottom of the container, followed by coffee, more water & then the remaining coffee. Once the Toddy is filled with cold water and ground coffee you want to use the back of a spoon to gently press down any dry coffee grounds to make sure it's evenly saturated. Now you must wait, which is probably the hardest part of the brewing process!</p>
<p>Keep the Toddy at room temperature while the cold brew is working it's magic for anywhere from 12-48 hours. Once the grueling 48 hours passes you can now remove the stopper and let the coffee slowly pour itself into the included glass decanter. The cold brew concentrate you just created will last up to 2 weeks in the fridge! The reason I refer to it as a concentrate is because you will want to add cold water to it so it is not too strong, depending on your preference.</p>
<p>Cold brew coffee has emerged in popularity over the years due to the following characteristics; it has a higher caffeine content because it is in contact with the coffee grounds for a substantial amount of time, it is considered smoother in taste and less acidic than regular drip coffee, and lastly is brings out more of the flavor profile of the beans that are used in the brewing process.</p>

<h3>The Iced Coffee Brewing Process</h3>
<p>The iced coffee brewing method is not as simple as pouring hot coffee over ice due to the simple fact that the ice melts almost instantly and turns the coffee into a watery, lukewarm coffee - and no one wants that. Hot coffee = good; cold coffee = good; warm coffee = bad. You will want to start with our <a href="https://www.chriscoffee.com/Machristay-Premium-Iced-Coffee-24-ct-5-oz-p/pic245.htm?utm_source=article&utm_medium=blog&utm_content=cold-brew-vs-iced-coffee" target="_blank">Premium Iced Coffee Blend</a>, which is conveniently ground and packaged into 5 oz. fractional bags. We have carefully taken the time to experiment with different blends, roast shades, and grind settings to come up with what we believe will make the best cup of iced coffee. You will want to use a <a href="https://www.chriscoffee.com/Coffee-Brewers-s/1872.htm?utm_source=article&utm_medium=blog&utm_content=cold-brew-vs-iced-coffee" target="_blank">standard coffee brewer</a> like a <a href="https://www.chriscoffee.com/Bunn-s/6103.htm?utm_source=article&utm_medium=blog&utm_content=cold-brew-vs-iced-coffee" target="_blank">Bunn</a> Machine to brew the pot of hot coffee. Although you are using more ground coffee than you typically would (2.5 oz.) the grind is coarse enough so the brew basket will not overflow, and you will get a stronger tasting coffee which will in turn not taste diluted when the cold water is added to it. For every pot of coffee that is brewed you will want to add a third of a pot of cold water to it. Ideally you will want to keep the coffee in the fridge overnight to ensure a nice, cold cup of iced coffee for the following day.</p>
<p>No matter if you prefer cold brew, or iced coffee - one thing we can all agree on is there's nothing better than an iced cold cup of freshly brewed coffee on a hot summer day...or a cold snowy night like tonight!</p>